Cheap and pocket, is it still cheap or is this appreciated, Alan?
It depends.
Do you have a printing date on it by any chance?
There isn't a printing date.
Some of the engravings say they were engraved for C. Cook in 1797.
Others say 1799.
Okay.
Well, it precedes the true cheap edition.
Interestingly enough, when railroad stations were being built in the 1850s is when the first paperbacks or the first cheap editions really were made popular in England.
They were the first paperback or cheap edition racks.
And that's when you actually see the word cheap edition on almost every book.
It was a traveler's library.
What you have is probably a traveler's library that was printed in the 1780s to 90s to the early 1800s.
And what it is is a series of which you have a volume which comprises two poets that could have been as long as 40 or 50 volumes.
dependent upon what the publisher decided to do or the printer decided to do to put out.
As a general rule of thumb, these books sell for no more than $5 to $15, depending on the condition of the leather.
And a full set would be proportionate to that, $10 a volume, as a general sense.
I'm sure that is what it is, because it even says here in the back, they describe it as each volume from its convenient size forms an agreeable traveling companion, adapted for amusement at the fireside, et cetera, et cetera.
an interesting point is the torwich editions which were another series of books cheap editions bernard torwich um actually published some of the first editions of travel books which now are worth two to three to four hundred dollars a piece but they came out as cheap editions in the 1830s we have one book in stock right now by amelia edwards which is um um
on untrodden peaks and something else.
I can't remember the exact title.
She also rode 1,000 miles up the Nile.
And we have the tourways edition, which has original photographs of the people that she saw in the Alps.
And we have that price at $150.
Another individual group of books that came out is the Harper Brothers series in the 1830s, which were the equivalent of the first American pocketbooks, but they're cloth-bound.
And they actually have Baker, the Travels Up to the Niazza Falls, which is the first book on the African exploration.
That book sells for $300, and that was a cheap edition.
So cheap isn't always cheap.
Well, not in book collecting, it isn't.
So don't get put off because you just see cheap.
But in your case, unfortunately, cheap is inexpensive.
It's expensive.
Thanks, Sally.
Well, thank you.
Thank you.
That's Sally calling the Book Guys, 1-800-828-BOOK.
That's the number you call.
You'll get an answering machine.
We just want to tell you what happens, and no matter who's there answering, sometimes it's a live person, but quite often, because we're recording when you're out of the house, when you're calling, we'll call you back and set you up for the radio show.
That's the way it works in a lot of programs today, and we want to get you at home, comfortable, like, well, like Dean is.
He's sitting in his home, and he's got something for us.
Dean, welcome to the Book Guys.
Well, thank you, Book Guys.
I'm glad to be here.
Good.
I've got a couple of interesting books that are signed by Barry Goldwater.
One is his book that's called People and Places.
It's a first edition.
1,000 copies have been printed on special paper or special bound.
Each copy contains an original photograph.
This is number 650, signed by Barry Goldwater.
And then I have a book by Olaf Wehorst, who's a southwestern painter you may be familiar with, who has since died.
This book is signed by Barry Goldwater and Olaf Wehorst as well.
It has an original sketch in the front by Mr. Wehorst.
Barry Goldwater did a show.
He was a big collector of his artwork, I believe, and had a show somewhere either in Washington or in the southwest at one point.
And I think he helped him in his work.
profession.
I mean, it was not a mentor.
What's the word I'm looking for here, Mike?
He was his mentor.
Mentor, right.
The first Goldwater book is probably the only book signed by Goldwater that actually is worth something because it's the limited edition.
There are so many books out there that are signed by Goldwater since he's still alive that an average book signed by him would only be worth $15 to $20, depending on the book.
The book you have is a little bit better because of the limitation, and I would say that on the market now it sells for between $75 to $125.
The other book with the original sketch, I'm not familiar with the artist's work as far as his resale value, but I could just assume that considering that it's double signed with an original sketch.
Is it an original sketch or is it a printed piece that's signed by the artist?
It's actually an original sketch.
In the book itself?
I actually have two copies of the book.
It's interesting.
And they're both different sketches.
Right.
One's 100, number 127.
Another one's 79.
That's interesting.
So he, in other words, made a limited edition book and in each book wrote a different or illustrated the book with a different sketch?
That's correct.
Wow.
And then Barry Goldwater has written a forward in the book.
Mm-hmm.
and there's a reason why his name is on there, and then the author of the book, William Reed.
Well, I'll tell you quite frankly, I'd have to do some more research on this to give you an accurate idea of the value.
I'm really interested in finding it out, because I've very rarely heard of an artist who actually would do a different illustration for a limited edition.
Usually what they do is issue a limited edition with possibly a print numbered of one of 150 signed.
And then to enhance the book, like I have a friend who does children's illustrations, who always illustrates the books for my kids and taking one of the illustrations from the book and then just doing a little, you know, capsulated version of it, which is an extra value to the book.
But I've never heard of an artist actually going out and doing a different illustration per book.
Alan, because this is a southwestern artist and because Barry Goldwater is based in Arizona, would this book possibly be worth more in Arizona than here on the East Coast?
Oh, there's no question that geographically books have a difference in value, and people are going to be more prone to collect it in the area that the book is from.
It's one of the tenets of appraising that actually when we do a certified appraisal that we can take in geographical location as a way to increase the value, i.e.
a collection on books about Montana will sell for more because they're more desirable than they would be in New York City or Florida.
So we can actually affix a value a little bit higher or higher.
on a general rule, proportionately higher than you would in outside the geographic area.
I would like to actually find out more about this book, and if you could call the 1-800 number after the show, I'd like to do some research to give you a price on that.
I feel very uncomfortable just doing a guess on the air.
Absolutely.
That's fine.
I'll be glad to do so.
And you brought up an interesting point about the value of books, obviously, increasing when you have prominent political figures sign them and have some others by...
They were signed by different presidents.
And I'm wondering, are certain presidents more valuable?
I guess the ones that aren't alive.
Well, yeah.
The best president you want to get is William Henry Harrison while he was in office, which was all of one month.
Seriously, this sounds funny.
But, you know, signatures are valuable proportionate to their scarcity.
And as far as...
People in political, you know, presidents or senators, et cetera, the two most valuable signatures that I know of are William Henry Harrison in office, or if you were collecting signers of Declaration of Independence, Button Gwinnett, who was a signer from Georgia.
There's only five known signatures that he has.
They sell for $300,000 or more.
So, you know, presidents are valuable.
I have a book by Dwight Eisenhower that is signed, Mandate for Change.
Mandate for Change sells for anywhere from $300 to $600, depending if it's a limited edition or not.
I saw four copies of it at the Boston Book Fair, ranging in price from $400 to $650.
There you go.
How about the Nixon books?
Which ones?
Well, I've got Six Crises and The Memoirs of Richard.
Well, Six Crises, be very careful of, because he was notorious for using his auto pen on that book.
And that's the one book that very rarely is signed in hand.
If you have an inscription, then you have a better chance.
Well, it's signed to my parents.
Is it signed to them?
I mean, does it say to Mr. and Mrs.?
Then, obviously, it's very hard to put an auto pen like that.
That book would sign, if it was a first edition, for a minimum of $300, because that's one of the more desirable Nixon books.
Very, very interesting.
Thanks, Dean, for calling us.
Thank you, gentlemen.
Thanks.
Bye-bye.
Alan mentioned the number 1-800-828-BOOK.
That's the way you get in contact with the book guys and become part of the radio show.
You, who have heard the show now for several minutes, understand the way it works.
You ask about your books, and Alan ends up who knows where.
into the short life of William Henry Harrison as a president.
We don't know where we're going to end up.
It depends on your books and your calls.
So call us right now at 1-800-828-BOOK.
The number is answered 24 hours a day.
Let's go to New York City.
Tom, welcome to the book, guys.
Hi.
I have a collection of a dozen New York City directories.
They're from the mid-19th century, 1851, 1852, and they span right up until, well, 1909, published by Trowes.
Right.
And I have three of them that have maps inside them.
They, as you know, were printed on very cheap paper.
They're in a variety of conditions, some of them in better conditions than others.
Right.
and the same thing with the maps, but I am a genealogist, and they are very, very, I mean, they really are key to doing family history in New York.
There's no question.
Yeah, and I was just wondering what the value was.
Okay, this is a wonderful area.
About 12 or 15 years ago, when I had first really gotten into book collecting, I got a phone call from a local institution here who had 6,000 to 12,000 city directories, and I became an instantaneous expert on city directories.
So I think I know more about city directories than the average person.
They're great.
Obviously, the earlier the city directory is for that city, the more valuable it is.
Like in Washington, the first city directory is 1821 or 1822.
And that sells, if you can find a copy of it in its original printing, when they now have a facsimile edition, it sells for about $2,000.
Right.
I had a city directory from San Francisco from 1851.
You talk about having a wonderful piece.
I didn't even price it.
I just waited for people to call me up and tell me how much they would pay for it.
But the ones that you have are very collectible.
They sell for a minimum, and I'm saying this as a minimum because I haven't seen the condition of them, $75 a piece.
I would imagine that some of the mid-1800s
depending upon the engravings or the maps or the grids that you might have in there showing the areas, would sell for $200 to $300 now.
The interesting thing is early phone books have become highly collectible.
I had a phone book from Honolulu from 1897 or something that somebody offered me $400, which I didn't know what it was worth, but that basically made me think twice before selling it because I got that kind of an offer.
Tom, since you're a genealogist, why would you want to sell these valuable resources?
Well, I don't want to sell them.
I had bought them at a shop that specializes in New York City material called New York Bound at Rockefeller Center, and the woman that owns the shop and runs the shop was, I guess that she had gotten a large collection of them.
She had a lot of repeats, and she really did want to just sell them, and she gave them to me for a very, very good price, and
Now, as you may know, all of these directories are available on microfilm in major libraries, but to actually have the hard copy in your hand is a whole different experience, as you know.
Well, you know, the interesting thing about it is that, as you say, they're on microfilm, but there is such a feeling of history.
When you see these in their original state and realize that people actually use these in their daily perusals of towns, I mean, the three cities that have the most city directors, obviously, are Boston, New York, and Philadelphia.
So you're going to get larger print runs, but that doesn't mean that they're inexpensive.
It's interesting.
The 1909 one, it has the price was stamped right inside.
They were not cheap at the time.
They were $10.
In 1909, $10 was quite a bit to pay for it.
It took a lot of money to put one of those together.
Right.
Most of the time, there were law offices that had them.
Whatever.
I mean, the average person did not have a New York City directory.
They had to go scare it up if they wanted to look up somebody in it.
But they are, from a genealogical point of view, they're very, very exciting.
It is history.
It's on very cheap paper.
I will say that.
And actually, people that have bought them in very, very good condition is almost at a very, very high price.
You almost scratch your head because...
It's like the very old telephone books.
You only use them a few times, and they begin to really start to fall apart.
Tom, we thank you very much for your call to The Book Guys.
We're The Book Guys.
We're the Book Guys in Washington, D.C.
We're talking used and rare books.
We've had an interesting collection so far this program.
Let's go to Boston to see what Jay's got for us.
Jay?
Gentlemen, good evening.
Hi.
I have a two-volume set of Philadelphia history.
We go from Washington, New York, to Philadelphia, familiarly known as Watson's Annals.
It was called the Annals of Philadelphia and Pennsylvania in the olden time.
Right.
I guess half leather with sort of turkey hair.
dark turkey marbled paper.
I've never heard that expression in all my years of book selling.
Dark turkey?
I remember that from my museum days, that that's what this kind of outside paper looks like.
But this is an edition dated 1857.
I guess the first edition was about 10 or 12 years ahead of that.
But it's illustrated with engravings and was sort of a
A standby Philadelphia history in lots of households that I remember growing up.
Watson's is a hard sell.
It's a very popular book.
It is pretty available in most used bookstores.
You tend to go into any bookstore that handles Americana, and you'll always see a set of Watson's.
I think we have two in stock in our rare book room.
And, I mean, it's not that they're bad books.
They must have published 400,000 sets of them over a period of time, and most of them have been retained.
You're telling me that my children's college education is not in my hands.
No, hopefully.
Not unless they go to Philadelphia.
Or, I mean, maybe a preschool week you might have, you know.
But you're right, it's not going to put the kids through school.
I would imagine that if you have a half-weather set, we would price it just to keep the price inflated in the store for about $75 to $125.
But we would probably take half of that if somebody made an offer, okay?
It's just one of those books that just is not a drudge on the market, just it's out there.
That, I guess, explains why it was so common growing up.
Right.
No question.
Do you have a chance to think a little bit about a Philadelphia-published set of Dickens, a Lippincott set dated 1882?
That's a late edition.
Yeah.
That's definitely been in the public domain, or it's a boot.
Mm-hmm.
Excuse me, it's a boot?
A bootleg, you know, or, you know, a pirate, you know.
It's not, it looks, it's a green buckroom, I guess.
Yeah, no, that's just a reading edition.
Quite frankly, it's the kind of book that we would put a couple of dollars on max and just put it into a reading table.
All of the Dickens, of any consequence, are going to be during the actual publication dates, which are about 1832 to 1855.
And the early American editions are valuable, not as valuable as the English editions, which are generally preceded by subscription editions.
In other words, the books came out after they put them in a supplementary form and sent them every week to the individual who paid for them, and then they got 24 parts or 32 parts of a book.
Sure.
Then the first edition came out.
Then the first American edition came out subsequently to that.
What you probably have is the 7,453rd edition in a reprint.
When I turned on the program and started listening, I went scurrying for the real prize and couldn't put hands on it in the attic.
And that's a, I don't know, 1750s...
Ben Franklin Publication of Advice to a Young Man, and I'm afraid I don't even remember the title.
You know, that's a good book.
I mean, there were more than one advice books by Franklin.
Ben Franklin... That's one of his more racy ones, as I recall.
Doesn't that include the advice on selecting a mistress?
It does, yes.
Is that advice on marriage?
Yes.
That's a valuable book.
It's pretty beat up.
It's leather, but the corners are really worn.
Yeah, but just the case, is the contents intact?
They are, yeah.
Okay, is it the original boards?
I have reason to think that it is if memory serves, and I wish I had it in my hand.
Yeah, that's a book on the hundreds of dollars.
Yeah, dependent on the condition, I really can't say how much.
That's the kind of book that I would even, and I very rarely suggest this, that if the covers are tattered or in really poor condition, you might want to invest and rebind it.
It's not going to enhance the value of the book generally, but it's going to protect it.
And a book that early could justify a rebinding.
Jay, thank you very much for calling us on The Book Guys.
Thank you very much.
Thank you now.
That's Jay in Boston from all over the country.
We take calls on The Book Guys at 1-800-828-BOOK.
I'd like to tell you that in next week's program, we'll have a feature every week.
Tonight we just sort of introduced ourselves, being our first broadcast.
But next week, we're going to focus on these book fairs that you've been hearing about.
Some of the best buys in bookdom or not.
How to strategize yourself.
If you're going to go into the book fair and you're going to be competing with dealers, how to get the good buys, how to recognize them, who to take along, and what sources you might need.
We'll talk about that as our feature next week on The Book Guys.
Have time for about one more quick call.
Let's go to Poughkeepsie.
And, Bea, you're on with The Book Guys.
Hi there.
Are you there, Bea?
There she goes.
I have a book which I found in my mother's attic, but it's not really that old, 1929.
But it's what I call Art Deco, and the title is C-O-N-T-E-M-P-O, and it reads on the inside cover,
This edition of Contempo is limited to 166 signed copies.
This is number, and there's no number, but it's signed by both the authors.
And who are the authors?
John Vasos?
Yes.
Right?
And Ruth.
John Vasos is a very popular, he was a woodcut illustrator who was an Art Deco artist.
Popular, popular author at the time.
John Vasso's books sell for a minimum of $75 now to possibly $300 or $400 for one of the better books.
And if you have an extraordinarily scarce Vasso's item, you'd probably be looking at the upper hundreds or lower thousands.
What you probably have, so you said it's limited, but it doesn't show a limitation on it.
You might have one of the books that was published out of sequence.
Generally, when a book is published limited, they may have 175 copies, but they also have a runover of maybe four or five, which they give to the author or to the artist, the handout, or the publisher keeps a copy.
This is called out of number, and generally is worth a little bit less
than the limitation.
Now, when you collect books which are limited, you want to get the number one copy the best you can.
I mean, in this case, this book, Contempo is not a common book in the sense that it's accessible, but is a well-known book by Vassos.
And the fact that you have it doubly signed in limitation, I would price it, depending on condition, at anywhere from $150 to $250.
Uh-huh.
That's a wonderful area is the Art Deco Woodcuts.
There's Lynn Ward.
I don't know if anybody knows who he is, but he has wonderful books.
Hasn't he written novels in Just Woodcuts?
Just Woodcuts, yeah.
He has two books in Just Woodcuts.
And Vasos are probably the two most collectible to Woodcut artists at that time period.
But there's German Woodcut artists that are highly popular from that time period, too.
And it's a great area to collect because it really appreciates.
Thank you very much, Bea.
Well, thank you.
A very interesting book, as all the books have been.
Very quickly, Alan, because we're almost out of time, what's hot currently that came out of the Boston Book Fair, for example?
What's selling better than you expected?
For me?
Yeah, for anybody.
Okay.
I have just obtained the library of Chief Justice Warren Burger, and I have all these books inscribed to the Chief Justice by people that were involved with him while he was the sitting Supreme Court Justice.
That was very hot.
You had the Burger collection.
I still have a lot of books.
But other people, general modern literature is selling very well.
We'll find out what's hot next week with The Book Guys as we join you for our second broadcast.
We're glad you joined us this evening.
The Book Guys is produced live on tape at the studios of WAMU-FM in Washington, D.C.
Our executive producer is Janelle Haskell.
Our engineer is Karen McNamara.
McManus, excuse me, Karen.
Marketing by Tim Haskell of Haskell & Marceau.
Associate producers are Kim Stipek and Jennifer Cuthbert.
The Book Guys is made possible by Second Story Books in Washington.
Join us next week on this same station for more about the rare world of used books, reading, printing, and collecting with The Book Guys.
Speaking for Alan Stipek, I'm Mike Cuthbert in Washington.